Prompt API: Add overview for Prompt API (#43848)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/languagemodel/contextusage/index.md

---
title: "LanguageModel: contextUsage property"
short-title: contextUsage
slug: Web/API/LanguageModel/contextUsage
page-type: web-api-instance-property
spec-urls: https://webmachinelearning.github.io/prompt-api/
---

{{APIRef("Prompt API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The **`contextUsage`** read-only property of the {{domxref("LanguageModel")}} interface returns the number of context window tokens currently consumed by this session, including initial prompts and all subsequent turns. This value increases every time you call {{domxref("LanguageModel.prompt()", "prompt()")}}, {{domxref("LanguageModel.promptStreaming()", "promptStreaming()")}}, or {{domxref("LanguageModel.append()", "append()")}}.

Compare `contextUsage` with {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextWindow")}} to determine how much space remains. When `contextUsage` would exceed `contextWindow`, subsequent method calls throw a `QuotaExceededError` and the `contextoverflow` event fires.

> To estimate how many tokens a new prompt would use before sending it, call {{domxref("LanguageModel.measureContextUsage()")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`contextUsage`** read-only property of the {{domxref("LanguageModel")}} interface returns the number of context window tokens currently consumed by this session, including initial prompts and all subsequent turns.

This value increases every time you call {{domxref("LanguageModel.prompt()", "prompt()")}}, {{domxref("LanguageModel.promptStreaming()", "promptStreaming()")}}, or {{domxref("LanguageModel.append()", "append()")}}.

Compare `contextUsage` with {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextWindow")}} to determine how much space remains. When `contextUsage` would exceed `contextWindow`, subsequent method calls throw a `QuotaExceededError` and the `contextoverflow` event fires.

To estimate how many tokens a new prompt would use before sending it, call {{domxref("LanguageModel.measureContextUsage()")}}.
```

short-title: contextUsage
slug: Web/API/LanguageModel/contextUsage
page-type: web-api-instance-property
spec-urls: https://webmachinelearning.github.io/prompt-api/
---

{{APIRef("Prompt API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The **`contextUsage`** read-only property of the {{domxref("LanguageModel")}} interface returns the number of context window tokens currently consumed by this session, including initial prompts and all subsequent turns.

This value increases every time you call {{domxref("LanguageModel.prompt()", "prompt()")}}, {{domxref("LanguageModel.promptStreaming()", "promptStreaming()")}}, or {{domxref("LanguageModel.append()", "append()")}}.

Compare `contextUsage` with {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextWindow")}} to determine how much space remains. When `contextUsage` would exceed `contextWindow`, subsequent method calls throw a `QuotaExceededError` and the `contextoverflow` event fires.

To estimate how many tokens a new prompt would use before sending it, call {{domxref("LanguageModel.measureContextUsage()")}}.

## Value

A number representing the current context window usage in tokens.

## Examples

### Monitoring context usage during a conversation

> 

Reviewer: Code explanations everywhere.

Author: Done.

---
title: "LanguageModel: contextUsage property"
short-title: contextUsage
slug: Web/API/LanguageModel/contextUsage
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.LanguageModel.contextUsage
---

{{APIRef("Prompt API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The **`contextUsage`** read-only property of the {{domxref("LanguageModel")}} interface returns the number of context window tokens currently consumed by the session that calls it, including initial prompts and all subsequent turns.

This value increases every time you call {{domxref("LanguageModel.prompt()", "prompt()")}}, {{domxref("LanguageModel.promptStreaming()", "promptStreaming()")}}, or {{domxref("LanguageModel.append()", "append()")}}.

> Compare `contextUsage` with {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextWindow")}} to determine how much space remains. When `contextUsage` would exceed `contextWindow`, subsequent method calls throw a `QuotaExceededError` and the {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextoverflow_event", "contextoverflow")}} event fires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compare `contextUsage` with {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextWindow")}} to determine how many tokens remain. When `contextUsage` would exceed `contextWindow`, subsequent method calls throw a `QuotaExceededError` and the {{domxref("LanguageModel.contextoverflow_event", "contextoverflow")}} event fires.
```
